Now that we've been introduced
to the QGIS interface and we
have our materials organised and
ready to go, let's add some data
into our project.
To do this we're going to
utilise the browser window here
on the left.
This browser acts as a mini File
Explorer and so we can access
our computer files and folders
through this.
In this browser window we can
navigate to where we saved our
materials to.
So I'm going to go into home
here and now I can access my
OneDrive.
So we can open that up using the
arrow on the left and then in
Documents,
and then there we go, there's
our folder we created intro
QGIS.
So let's open this up and now we
can see our materials.
So we can open up our materials
folder as well.
And now we can see the materials
within this folder.
So we've got our different data
layers here.
We want to start adding these
into our project.
And so to do that, we're going
to click on the biomonitoring
Ziama 2019 points and then we
can click and hold and drag it
and then drop into our map
frame.
And now we've added that data
layer into our map.
But you can see that we're
really zoomed out, so we can't
really see this data layer.
So to be able to see it clearly,
we can right click on the layer
and click zoom to layer and now
we're zoomed in on all of our
points and we can see every
single one of them.
We're now going to have a go at
adding in another data layer.
So we're going to find the Ziama
landscape shape file, We're
going to click on it and then
we're going to do the same
thing.
We're going to drag it into our
map canvas.
And now we have our protected
area of Ziama added into our
map.
So we can see them on our map
frame, but we can also see them
in our layers list now.
And so in the layers list we can
use the toggle boxes next to the
names of the layers to turn them
on and off, and we can also drag
them up and down to decide which
layer we want on top of the
other.
And there you go.
That's how to add data into a
QGIS project.